for example we think that if we find a
boyfriend will feel love I think that
you know we think that if we get this
degree then we'll feel sort of
accomplishment and fulfillment maybe but
these things don't actually come from
those fiscal things they have to be
manifested internally so before you get
to loving yourself and valuing yourself
before you get there before you get to
that dream body of yours you have to
take that step you have to you know you
have to get that emotion you have to
follow that emotion before you can get
those physical results that you desire
and those physical results aren't going
to equate to that emotion what we have
to do is we have to chase these emotions
we have to chase these instinctive
natural urges to feel certain ways
that's what we need to chase you are you
so don't do what society tells everyone
else to do because everyone else isn't
you does that make sense just uh haha
just live your life just be happy be
healthy do the conventional safe thing
for the sake of that do what's gonna
make you happy I was having conversation
you're with with my chinese teacher in
in chinese she knows that I like to
practice political and philosophical
vocabulary so she asks me some sort of
provocative questions about the meaning
of life and how society is organized
from tonight I'm answering in Chinese
been struggling course to give a
meaningful answer in Chinese and you
know recently she was asked me a
question on those lines and about how
the younger generation she suggested
that the younger generation today has
has the wrong ideas and therefore is not
pursuing social progress literally
Chinese they have the right Ian I said
to her I honestly do not think that the
problem is that the younger generation
has the wrong ideas I think they don't
know how to implement ideas and this
conversation went on again in very
simple chinese and I said you know
honestly it doesn't matter to me if
we're talking about younger people
or if we're talking about older people
like my grandmother I really believe
that anyone who is living for their own
happiness is not living a life of duty
or virtue or social responsibility um
and you know very sort of harsh truth
but she agreed about that and you know I
talked a little bit about my grandmother
and I talked about how hard it is to be
a teenager also i can relate to both but
you know it may sound tremendously
tremendously harsh and judgmental but my
problem is really the same whether we're
talking about my grandmother or we're
talking about young people be on
permanent vacation my problem is not
just with the permanent vacation i
really do see the idea of living for
your own happiness short term and long
term as a fundamentally distorting and
myopic approach to life on Earth as
something that cuts you off from any
form of meaningful social engagement or
even adopting meaningful responsibility
and in a profession you know I don't
really think you can become a surgeon in
pursuit of this idea of self-love and
your own happiness or if you do I think
you're going to be a lousy surgeon I
think there's a tremendous difference
been someone who becomes a schoolteacher
just for money or just to make
themselves feel good short-term or
long-term or and someone who becomes a
schoolteacher who has a deep sense of
commitment and obligation to that
neighborhood where they're the chosen to
be a schoolteacher to the children in
that neighborhood maybe to the
disadvantaged children maybe as to all
the children I don't know or even a
commitment to building that school as an
institution where they feel that school
is a special institution and they care
about the future of that institution as
something important above and beyond
individual students individual teachers
such as themselves above and beyond the
paycheck and there have been many social
science studies on that question on how
all those differences in personal
motivation end up producing measurable
differences in outcomes short-term
self-interest of individuals does not
build great institutions does not
deliver great medical services to people
who need them and does not deliver great
education to the next generation either
I feel like a jerk saying this stuff you
know I do just now in the lineup for me
to get my vegan food one of the other
students here he said to me a friendly
way said hey what's up because he knows
he knows i like to use the phrase what's
up i said hey and he said all right so
you're still pretending to be a jerk
aren't you what do you what do you mean
pretending I thought I really was a jerk
what are you talking about and you know
he was of the opinion that really am a
nice guy and I pretend to be a jerk to
keep my distance of the other students
here yeah well some truth to that but on
some level I think I'm a real jerk also
I think you've got to be a jerk when i
was a child i looked at my grandmother
in her retirement and i saw someone who
was playing tennis you know going on
vacation living a life of
self-indulgence and I saw my own
grandmother as someone who had totally
abdicated any sense of social
responsibility any engagement with the
problems in her own society in Canada
let alone global or ecological or what
have you and I saw her as someone who
had given up any sense of responsibility
even for me she really wasn't a
grandmother to me she wasn't concerned
about my education or my future helping
me in any way she wasn't concerned about
the very real problems in my own my own
family my own nuclear family and in a
very real sense I think she was a bad
person um she did memorably donate money
to Greenpeace if you don't know
Greenpeace you could google them they're
on ecological charity their
environmental activist is some sort and
you know if ever the subject of ecology
came up you know around the dinner table
myself a Kraft mother she could invoke
this oh yeah I'm doing my part for the
environment you know I tone eight money
to Greenpeace and there are a lot of
people who eat meat every day for
shade meet everything her generation you
know for whom that kind of thing is the
the moral fig leaf is you know I I gave
money at the office but for me you know
I don't especially stigmatize teenagers
I don't especially stigmatize the people
who are wearing a bikini on the internet
turn a living more than i do someone
who's a dentist or a doctor or works at
starbucks does any other kind of job
it's true that on a deep level i just do
not believe in personal happiness as the
meaning of life and I I think that is
you know dangerous narcissism whereas
someone who seems self-confident and
collected in talking about something
they have every reason to be
self-confident and collected and talking
about I don't see that as indicating
narcissism at all what we have to do is
we have to chase these emotions we have
to chase these instinctive natural urges
to feel certain ways that's what we need
a chase and it's harder than I mean
easier said than done obviously like for
example how do you start to just just
love yourself how do you start to just
valet yourself you know just it's hard
but it's a daily practice the accusation
of narcissism gets thrown around a lot
on the internet and it's interesting to
me because some of the reasons why
people accuse me of being a narcissist
or from my perspective not indications
of narcissism they're actually
indications of the exact opposite they
indicate a pragmatic down-to-earth
attitude being willing to talk about
yourself in the first person having the
self-confidence talk about yourself talk
about what you want your concerns does
not in and of itself indicate narcissism
and on the contrary refusal to be honest
of the first person who you are about
the role you yourself play in the
equation you're portraying can can
conceal narcissism thanks
manifests itself in different ways for
everyone for different people you know
for me loving myself means being easy on
myself gonna read here a comment from
YouTube public comments Sophie Sophie I
commented I did not care for you or your
channel when I first came across it
because you struck me as being extremely
narcissistic that's the question what
does that mean but you've definitely
grown on me and I've subscribed well I
don't agree with everything you say in
your videos the content is interesting
educational thought-provoking and in
general quality content so thank you for
that so here's my response obviously
many people just sent me narcissism as
an insult without any turn around
reflection on here's the response i
wrote to be honest i think that you and
many members of our generation need to
re-examine what they mean by
narcissistic the fact that my
self-confidence may make you feel weak
neither means that i'm narcissistic nor
does it invalidate my opinions or the
value of my content in any way judging
someone as worthless or just
disregarding them because they have a
lot of self-confidence is deeply flawed
for the same reasons that disregarding
someone because they lack
self-confidence would be in fact it's
even worse because it is natural and
normal for people to have
self-confidence when they talk about
something they know about are passionate
about and when they feel they have
something valuable to offer you and by
the way on an infinite number of topics
I'm aware that I have no knowledge no
passion and nothing to offer thus EG i
don't make youtube videos about the
politics of Africa or the Caribbean all
that often
uh so what I'm suggesting here is that
seeing self-confidence and treating it
as narcissism is a mistake especially
what I'm the one choosing the topic of
the conversation I'm simply not choosing
to talk about topics that I'm deeply
uncomfortable discussing or that I lack
confidence to sometimes I do on this
channel sometimes to challenge myself I
intentionally choose things where I'm
kind of pushing my own limits where I'm
getting a little bit uncomfortable on
camera and I'm choosing topics that I'm
not that comfortable speaking about that
also reflects my back hurt in the
theater anyone if you're in theater even
doing stand-up comedy or something often
you really want to push that limit
rather than just speak on topics where
you're a hundred percent confident and
comfortable but confidence i think is
unrelated to what's really problematic
about narcissism because narcissism is
not a useless concept it's not a
meaningless insult I see many many
vegans on the internet who lack
self-confidence but whose entire content
is premise on the implicit assumption
that their personal happiness is
everything in this world and that to me
is really the malignant and dangerous
element of narcissism loving myself
means show yourself some empathy being
easy on myself you know and just
listening to myself so yeah what I'm
trying to say is that when you pay your
happiness and any kind of like mental
state to a physical reality you're just
never going to be happy why do I see so
many young women and young men speaking
as if their love for themselves where
their primary political problem
philosophical problem their primary
mission in life that feeling good about
themselves that loving themselves is
their main objective or their only
objective to me that really communicates
the malignant aspects of narcissism even
if they have no self-confidence
even if they don't consider themselves
beautiful or intelligent or powerful or
influential even if they lack self
discipline even if there are no topics
on which they are as comfortable
speaking as I am comfortable speaking
about Laos or Cambodia or something you
know again if I'm talking about the
politics of the Caribbean I'm a lot less
confident because I've done this much
reading on it in contrast to other parts
of the world we've done a lot of reading
you know you want to talk to me about
how difficult it is studying a language
like chinese or kre-o heart or Japanese
or you know my experience with language
education what have you sure you're
going to get a relaxed self-confident
opinion that to me does not suggest
narcissism or not the dangerous from but
malignant aspects of narcissism there's
a real difference between saying this is
what I want this is who I am these are
my concerns and saying this is real
veganism this is fake veganism if you
don't agree with me your fake vegan if
you watch my video on community in that
video on community I say again again
this is what I want this is what I'm
concerned about for my future here's
what I'm concerned about when my own
grandparents go into a retirement home
or when I go into a term home or when my
daughter needs to go to school etc etc
here's what I want in my life here's
what I'm worried about is that an
indication of narcissism yeah I want a
real community yeah I want it all from
cradle to the grave the lawyers to the
political organization to having that
foundation that's respected enough that
when there's a controversy in government
the newspaper is know who to call maybe
there are several foundations than the
call where there's a voice advocating
for veganism in Parliament in the
newspapers on the street yeah I want it
and I'm going to recognize I don't have
it that's real community and we're going
to have to work real hard to get what if
I had phrased all the same statements in
that video is very intentional that I
say this is what I
want and the reason is that it's with
all due humility that I'm aware this may
not be what you want this may not be for
everyone this is not something that
defines all vegans not any means if you
can imagine how different the whole
video would sound if instead it proposed
the same argument in terms of this is
what veganism means right and if you
don't believe in this if you're not
pursuing or supporting this then you're
not a real vegan you're a fake vegan
quite a few people in the internet are
playing that game I'm not satisfied with
what you guys call cutie i'm not
satisfied with a bunch of self-indulgent
middle-aged people sitting around on
facebook giving each other the thumbs up
or you know i'm not satisfied with a
bunch of teenagers on instagram
photographing their asses in a bikini
and saying they're changing the world
none of that does it for me okay i want
more can I have it today no can I have
it next year no am I going to see it
before I die maybe but for me you know I
don't especially stigmatize teenagers I
don't especially stigmatize the people
who are wearing a bikini on the internet
turn a living it's true that on a deep
level I just do not believe in personal
happiness as the meaning of life and I I
think that is you know dangerous
narcissism whereas someone who seems
self-confident and collected in talking
about something they have every reason
to be self-confident and collected and
talking about I don't see that as
indicating narcissism at all